2 Nephi 6Chapter 6THE LORDBehold, I will lift up mine hand to the Gentiles, and set up my standard to the people; and they shall bring thy sons in their arms, and thy daughters shall be carried upon their shoulders.7 And kings shall be thy nursing fathers, and their queens thy nursing mothers; they shall bow down to thee with their faces towards the earth, and lick up the dust of thy feet; and thou shalt know that I am the Lord; for they shall not be ashamed that wait for me.THE LORDEven the captives of the mighty shall be taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be delivered; for the Mighty God shall deliver his covenant people. THE LORDI will contend with them that contendeth with thee--Chapter 9 (none)Chapter 10JESUS CHRIST 1When the day cometh that they shall believe in me, that I am Christ, then have I covenanted with their fathers that they shall be restored in the flesh, upon the earth, unto the lands of their inheritance.8 And it shall come to pass that they shall be gathered in from their long dispersion, from the isles of the sea, and from the four parts of the earth; and the nations of the Gentiles shall be great in the eyes of me, JESUS CHRISTin carrying them forth to the lands of their inheritance.JESUS CHRIST10 But behold, this land, JESUS CHRISTshall be a land of thine inheritance, and the Gentiles shall be blessed upon the land.11 And this land shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles, and there shall be no kings upon the land, who shall raise up unto the Gentiles.12 And I will fortify this land against all other nations.13 And he that fighteth against Zion shall perish, JESUS CHRIST14 For he that raiseth up a king against me shall perish, for I, the Lord, the king of heaven, will be their king, and I will be a light unto them forever, that hear my words.15 Wherefore, for this cause, that my covenants may be fulfilled which I have made unto the children of men, that I will do unto them while they are in the flesh, I must needs destroy the secret works of darkness, and of murders, and of abominations.16 Wherefore, he that fighteth against Zion, both Jew and Gentile, both bond and free, both male and female, shall perish; for they are they who are the whore of all the earth; for they who are not for me are against me,JESUS CHRIST17 For I will fulfil my promises which I have made unto the children of men, that I will do unto them while they are in the flesh--JESUS CHRISTI will afflict thy seed by the hand of the Gentiles; nevertheless, I will soften the hearts of the Gentiles, that they shall be like unto a father to them; wherefore, the Gentiles shall be blessed and numbered among the house of Israel.19 Wherefore, I will consecrate this land unto thy seed, and them who shall be numbered among thy seed, forever, for the land of their inheritance; for it is a choice land, JESUS CHRISTabove all other lands, wherefore I will have all men that dwell thereon that they shall worship me, Jacob 1THE LORDJacob, get thou up into the temple on the morrow, and declare the word which I shall give thee unto this people.THE LORDThis people begin to wax in iniquity; they understand not the scriptures, for they seek to excuse themselves in committing whoredoms, because of the things which were written concerning David, and Solomon his son.24 Behold, David and Solomon truly had many wives and concubines, which thing was abominable before me, LORD25 Wherefore, 2LORDI have led this people forth out of the land of Jerusalem, by the power of mine arm, that I might raise up unto me a righteous branch from the fruit of the loins of Joseph.26 Wherefore, I the Lord God will not suffer that this people shall do like unto them of old.LORDFor there shall not any man among you have save it be one wife; and concubines he shall have none;28 For I, the Lord God, delight in the chastity of women. And whoredoms are an abomination before me; THE LORD29 Wherefore, this people shall keep my commandments, THE LORDor cursed be the land for their sakes.30 For if I will, THE LORDraise up seed unto me, I will command my people; otherwise they shall hearken unto these things.31 For behold, I, the Lord, have seen the sorrow, and heard the mourning of the daughters of my people in the land of Jerusalem, yea, and in all the lands of my people, because of the wickedness and abominations of their husbands.32 And I will not suffer, THE LORDthat the cries of the fair daughters of this people, which I have led out of the land of Jerusalem, shall come up unto me against the men of my people, THE LORD33 For they shall not lead away captive the daughters of my people because of their tenderness, save I shall visit them with a sore curse, even unto destruction; for they shall not commit whoredoms, like unto them of old, THE LORD I will liken thee, O house of Israel, like unto a tame olive-tree, which a man took and nourished in his vineyard; and it grew, and waxed old, and began to decay.4 And it came to pass that the master of the vineyard went forth, and he saw that his olive-tree began to decay; and he said:3THE LORD5 And it came to pass that he pruned it, and digged about it, and nourished it according to his word.6 And it came to pass that after many days it began to put forth somewhat a little, young and tender branches; but behold, the main top thereof began to perish.7 And it came to pass that the master of the vineyard saw it, and he said unto his servant: THE LORDsaith the Lord of the vineyard,THE LORD10 And it came to pass that the servant of the Lord of the vineyard did according to the word of the Lord of the vineyard, and grafted in the branches of the wild olive-tree.11 And the Lord of the vineyard caused that it should be digged about, and pruned, and nourished, saying unto his servant:THE LORD14 And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard went his way, and hid the natural branches of the tame olive-tree in the nethermost parts of the vineyard, some in one and some in another, according to his will and pleasure.15 And it came to pass that a long time passed away, and the Lord of the vineyard said unto his servant:THE LORD16 And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard, and also the servant, went down into the vineyard to labor. And it came to pass that the servant said unto his master:THE LORD17 And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard looked and beheld the tree in the which the wild olive branches had been grafted; and it had sprung forth and begun to bear fruit. And he beheld that it was good; and the fruit thereof was like unto the natural fruit.18 And he said unto the servant: THE LORD19 And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said unto the servant: THE LORD20 And it came to pass that they went forth whither the master had hid the natural branches of the tree, and he said unto the servant: THE LORDand he beheld the first that it had brought forth much fruit; and he beheld also that it was good. And he said unto the servant: THE LORDsaid he, THE LORD21 And it came to pass that the servant said unto his master:THE LORD22 And the Lord of the vineyard said unto him:THE LORD23 And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said unto his servant:THE LORD24 And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said again unto his servant: THE LORD25 And he said unto the servant:THE LORD26 And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said unto the servant:THE LORD27 But behold, the servant said unto him:THE LORD28 And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard and the servant of the Lord of the vineyard did nourish all the fruit of the vineyard.29 And it came to pass that a long time had passed away, and the Lord of the vineyard said unto his servant:THE LORD30 And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard and the servant went down into the vineyard; and they came to the tree whose natural branches had been broken off, and the wild branches had been grafted in; and behold all sorts of fruit did cumber the tree.31 And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard did taste of the fruit, every sort according to its number. And the Lord of the vineyard said: THE LORD33 And the Lord of the vineyard said unto the servant: THE LORD34 And the servant said unto his master: THE LORD35 And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said unto his servant: THE LORD38 And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said unto his servant: THE LORD39 And it came to pass that they went down into the nethermost parts of the vineyard. And it came to pass that they beheld that the fruit of the natural branches had become corrupt also; yea, the first and the second and also the last; and they had all become corrupt.40 And the wild fruit of the last had overcome that part of the tree which brought forth good fruit, even that the branch had withered away and died.41 And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard wept, and said unto the servant: THE LORD48 And it came to pass that the servant said unto his master: THE LORD49 And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard said unto the servant: THE LORD50 But, behold, the servant said unto the Lord of the vineyard:THE LORD51 And the Lord said:THE LORD55 And it came to pass that they took from the natural tree which had become wild, and grafted in unto the natural trees, which also had become wild.56 And they also took of the natural trees which had become wild, and grafted into their mother tree.57 And the Lord of the vineyard said unto the servant: THE LORD70 And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard sent his servant; and the servant went and did as the Lord had commanded him, and brought other servants; and they were few.71 And the Lord of the vineyard said unto them:THE LORD72 And it came to pass that the servants did go and labor with their mights; and the Lord of the vineyard labored also with them; and they did obey the commandments of the Lord of the vineyard in all things.73 And there began to be the natural fruit again in the vineyard; and the natural branches began to grow and thrive exceedingly; and the wild branches began to be plucked off and to be cast away; and they did keep the root and the top thereof equal, according to the strength thereof.74 And thus they labored, with all diligence, according to the commandments of the Lord of the vineyard, even until the bad had been cast away out of the vineyard, and the Lord had preserved unto himself that the trees had become again the natural fruit; and they became like unto one body; and the fruits were equal; and the Lord of the vineyard had preserved unto himself the natural fruit, which was most precious unto him from the beginning.75 And it came to pass that when the Lord of the vineyard saw that his fruit was good, and that his vineyard was no more corrupt, he called up his servants, and said unto them: 1 Because Christ clearly identifies himself in 2 Nephi 10:7, quotes that would normally be attributed to “The Lord” in this chapter are attributed to “Jesus Christ.”2 It is worth noting that both Smith and Hardy attribute this “wherefore” to the Lord. However, it seems that it is a connection between the end of the Lord’s words in the previous verse and his later words in verse 25.3 Although the names the Lord of the Vineyard and the Master of the Vineyard are both used, it is clear that these two names refer to the same person, so we have represented that as such here. 